architecture/file_structure.rst, before:

.. _file_structure:

File structure
==============
This page describes what different folders in :ref:`optee_os` contains.

Top level directories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Top level directories
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /core
      - Files that are only used building TEE Core

    * - /lib
      - Files that are used both when building TEE Core and TAs

    * - /ta
      - Files that are only used when building TAs

    * - /mk
      - Makefiles supporting the build system

    * - /tmp-stuff
      - Temporary stuff that will be removed before the final commit is made

    * - /scripts
      - Helper scripts for miscellaneous tasks

    * - /out
      - Created when building unless a different out directory is specified with
        ``O=...`` on the command line

/core
^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /core
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /arch
      - Architecture and platform specific files

    * - /lib
      - Generic libraries that are likely to be replaced in a final product

    * - /mm
      - Generic memory management, currently empty

    * - /tee
      - Generic TEE files

/core/arch
^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /core/arch
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /arm
      - ARMv7 and Aarch32 specific architecture and platform specific files

    * - /user_mode
      - Linux used space specific files when debugging TEE Core as a user space
        process, only used for some development

/core/arch/arm
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /core/arch/arm
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /include
      - Include files used in rest of TEE core but not in any supporting
        libraries

    * - /kern
      - Low level and core parts of TEE Core

    * - /mm
      - Memory management

    * - /tee
      - TEE files

    * - /sm
      - Secure Monitor

    * - /plat-foo
      - Specific files for the ``foo`` platform

/core/arch/arm/include
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /core/arch/arm/include
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /kern
      - Include files exposing API for /core/arch/arm/kern files

    * - /kta
      - Include files exposing the KTA API that is mainly used by kernel TAs

    * - /mm
      - Include files exposing API for /core/arch/arm/mm files

    * - /rom
      - Old ROM files that should be removed before going public

    * - /sm
      - Include files exposing API for Secure Monitor

/core/lib/lib{crypto,sla}
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /core/lib/lib{crypto,sla}
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /
      - Source files for the library

    * - /include  
      - Include files exposing the API of the library

/lib/libutils
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /lib/libutils
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /
      - Source file for the library

    * - /arch	  
      - Architecture specific source files

    * - /arch/arm 
      - ARMv7 and Aarch32 specific source files

    * - /arch/arm/include 
      - ARMv7 and Aarch32 specific include files

    * - /include  
      - Include files exposing the API of the library

Commit message:

file structure: fixed width/spacing for tables
Signed-off-by: Joakim Bech <joakim.bech@linaro.org>

architecture/file_structure.rst, after:

.. todo::

    Joakim: Question is whether this should be moved under the "optee_os"
    specific page instead?

.. _file_structure:

File structure
==============
This page describes what different folders in :ref:`optee_os` contains.

Top level directories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Top level directories
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 1 5

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /core
      - Files that are only used building TEE Core

    * - /lib
      - Files that are used both when building TEE Core and TAs

    * - /ta
      - Files that are only used when building TAs

    * - /mk
      - Makefiles supporting the build system

    * - /tmp-stuff
      - Temporary stuff that will be removed before the final commit is made

    * - /scripts
      - Helper scripts for miscellaneous tasks

    * - /out
      - Created when building unless a different out directory is specified with
        ``O=...`` on the command line

/core
^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /core
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 1 5

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /arch
      - Architecture and platform specific files

    * - /lib
      - Generic libraries that are likely to be replaced in a final product

    * - /mm
      - Generic memory management, currently empty

    * - /tee
      - Generic TEE files

/core/arch
^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /core/arch
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 1 5

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /arm
      - ARMv7 and Aarch32 specific architecture and platform specific files

    * - /user_mode
      - Linux used space specific files when debugging TEE Core as a user space
        process, only used for some development

/core/arch/arm
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /core/arch/arm
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 1 5

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /include
      - Include files used in rest of TEE core but not in any supporting
        libraries

    * - /kern
      - Low level and core parts of TEE Core

    * - /mm
      - Memory management

    * - /tee
      - TEE files

    * - /sm
      - Secure Monitor

    * - /plat-foo
      - Specific files for the ``foo`` platform

/core/arch/arm/include
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /core/arch/arm/include
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 1 5

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /kern
      - Include files exposing API for /core/arch/arm/kern files

    * - /kta
      - Include files exposing the KTA API that is mainly used by kernel TAs

    * - /mm
      - Include files exposing API for /core/arch/arm/mm files

    * - /rom
      - Old ROM files that should be removed before going public

    * - /sm
      - Include files exposing API for Secure Monitor

/core/lib/lib{crypto,sla}
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /core/lib/lib{crypto,sla}
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 1 5

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /
      - Source files for the library

    * - /include  
      - Include files exposing the API of the library

/lib/libutils
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: Structure of /lib/libutils
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 1 5

    * - Directory
      - Description

    * - /
      - Source file for the library

    * - /arch	  
      - Architecture specific source files

    * - /arch/arm 
      - ARMv7 and Aarch32 specific source files

    * - /arch/arm/include 
      - ARMv7 and Aarch32 specific include files

    * - /include  
      - Include files exposing the API of the library
